and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't yet
check out our weekly email where we're
sharing action marketing tips useful
podcasts free guides bonus resources and
much much more each and every monday to
start your week off with a bank you can
sign up over at business growth dot
email
joining me today we've got jason varner
jason's the founder over at shift
marketing he turns unknown businesses
into worldwide brands jason welcome to
the show sir how you doing
awesome it's great to be here
cool man so looking forward to today's
chat it's been long in the coming but
we're going to be sharing
how
brands can utilize how companies can
utilize branding and what branding
really means and how it can actually
grow your sales revenue so with that
said sir let's not beat around the bush
i think a lot of companies as we were
discussing off air have got a bit of a
misconception when it comes to branding
but
to to set the path clear what does
branding really mean
so the way that we kind of define it at
shift is branding is being known for
something that people actually care
about and really when we say people we
mean your ideal customers and so
i think a lot of especially in the b2b
world when we talk brand what tends to
come to people's minds are it's a logo
it's fonts it's colors the more evolved
kind of marketer tends to think it's a
message or some kind of perception or
feel and while those are all aspects of
a brand a brand really is being known
for something that people care about and
i've seen a lot of people tend to
reference that jeff bezos quote of you
know a brand is what people say about
you when you're not in the room
and while
that's kind of true
i think what happens is people then tend
to think a brand is just
something that people feel that they
perceive that there's no strategy behind
it there's nothing you can really do to
create a brand because it's what your
customers say about you
and that's really really false so
when we talk about
brand there's there's actually three
different terms here that tend to get
thrown around equally and i i do it as
well my business partner steph egger he
yells at me frequently i actually did a
linkedin post about this a few weeks ago
that like
brand is
your business identity how you want to
be perceived branding
are the tactics you use to create that
identity and brand strategy is that
overall strategy of how you're going to
create that identity how you're going to
develop it and really how that's going
to merge with
your business strategy
and so a lot of times you have um
i see this a lot from web like web
development teams where they're like
we'll build your website and your brand
and it's
logo fonts colors because that's really
all they need to develop a website and
so people have this perception that a
brand really is just
a feeling a perception when really a
brand and really backing that up
building out of brand strategy
is the foundation for successful
business
um
you know talking about i talk about this
all the time on linkedin it is
understanding your ideal customers it's
knowing what sets you apart making you
different and then taking that turning
turning it into messaging and then
develop developing touch points in your
customer journey map so people know
this is the experience that i'm going to
have with you
all of it is
needs to be and really should be
very strategic if you want
to help develop that right perception of
your company
got it so that said
let's let's throw you under a bus a
little bit jason as i like to do why
can't why can't a new business of
startup just get put together let's say
a half decent looking logo get some
fonts like you said put together some
company colors perhaps they even go go
push the boat out and get a branding
guidelines kit created
is that not good enough can they not
then just stick a website up and start
marketing
so
the question the the answer i always
give is yes and no like a lot of
businesses do that i'm gonna just start
with some colors and some some fonts and
logos have a nice design
throw up a website and then
hope people come to me
the problem the problem with that
that kind of methodology here is that
design and creating the right brand
design
really is a reflection of the strategy
that you have so what i mean by that is
let's say you're creating a business and
you are going after
a
like let's say you're going after
how you shift as example b2b companies
um specifically b2b service companies
that um are either family owned or they
are pcbc funded and so you're kind of
going after either the owner or you're
going after the marketer
if you don't know that if you don't know
who you're going after for this business
if you don't know those ideal customers
everything you build the copy on the
website
isn't going to isn't going to accurately
communicate to them
what you what you're providing what
you're selling and really that benefit
that you're giving them and that's
really where
we see a lot of our clients coming to us
is they've done that they've had the
brand design they've thrown up a website
they put up messaging that they thought
sounded you know sounded good to them
and then they're like
i'm spending a lot of marketing money
but nothing's converting
and as we start going through a brand
strategy with them we're like yeah
because you
want to target here but you're writing
messaging for these people
and so the right clients are not coming
through seeing the benefit you provide
you're talking about you're gonna
optimize their revenue
and they're like that what does that
even mean like what does it mean if i
work with you how are you gonna do this
what does that look like how is it gonna
benefit
my day my time my business
you know like i said this in a linkedin
post
telling people you're going to help them
make more revenue is not a uniqueness
it's not it should not be in your brand
message because
every
company they work with
they are expecting you're gonna make me
more money
and so if you're saying we're gonna make
you more money and i go on to and seos
like your guys's website and say we're
going to make you more money and i go on
to
a uh like a
project management platform and they're
like we're going to make you more money
all of a sudden it's like well you guys
all sound the same so i don't know
why i should actually work with you and
that's where that's where just kind of
jumping in coming up with a logo
slapping a full website
tends to fail for people is they don't
know who they're targeting so the
messaging isn't there they don't know
you their
uniqueness so they don't even know like
i've done some discovery calls this week
with clients that they're like
we know our product we've been
successful but
we're struggling to generate inbound
leads because we don't know
how to communicate what we do in a
succinct way if i have an hour i can sit
down and explain it but if i have
seven seconds i can't do that
and that's where brand strategy really
really comes in is understanding who
you're going after
and what is that differentiation like
what really
sets you apart in the marketplace so
that people understand why i should buy
from you
how much of branding
comes down to messaging
versus
let's say design and look and feel
honestly like and and steph and i argue
i wouldn't say argue but we go back and
forth on this because i was head of
marketing for a while so i know
for most marketers when they think brand
what they're really thinking of is i
need messaging but really the majority
of brand is actually i would say 70 of
it is actually strategy
right who are your ideal customers
really understanding them and really
understanding what sets you apart
messaging is probably maybe 15
design is maybe like 5
um
and so it's why when i hear
you know b2b companies say like well we
just want a logo and colors it's like
that's the tip of the iceberg that's
like what people see if you can't tell
me
who who are you going after what sets
you apart
we might pick colors that generate the
wrong identity so
um i was explaining this to you to a
prospective client the other day like
if i don't know like let's say you your
identity is
a you're behind the scenes you're kind
of you're supporting the other business
you don't want to be
flashy out in front that's not the
personality of your business
if you pick
bright colors so this is actually a
client we we're working with
their colors right now
are
bright purple and bright green kind of
reminds me of a peacock to be honest
it's that kind of that kind of coloring
and i'm like if you're going to be
behind the scenes if you want to be this
help and advocate for your your clients
being
you know using purple and green is very
out there it's very bold it's i expect
you to be center stage um at some kind
of event and so
understanding this identity you want to
create
really
should should uh drive
the colors you choose the fonts you
choose because there is
a lot of psychology most people don't
understand this but there's a lot of
psychology in the colors you choose in
the fonts you choose like if you there's
a reason why facebook linkedin a lot of
banks use blue
blue for most people is a very
trustworthy very practical very like
you're going to be around long long-term
kind of color that's the the emotions it
evokes so if that's the personality you
want
blue is a good color but if you are
wild and crazy and youthful you probably
want more of an orange or a red because
that's going to evoke energy and
excitement and moving forward and danger
and like i'm going to drive a fast car
around a bend and hope i don't fly off
the mountain type type personality like
fast and furious you want orange like
that's that's the kind of uh emotion
that orange evokes and so what tends to
happen when you start with logo in
colors is people tend to pick the colors
that they like the most
but often those colors might evoke the
wrong feeling for their ideal customers
yeah and so that's why that's why having
that strategy down first
is going to make the brand design
so much easier
i think that's a common problem in
marketing or with marketing in general
jason just and i've been there in the
past and i'm sure my colleagues have and
the rest of the guys that work on the
team and
just with things in general picking out
what you think looks good what you think
is going to work best what you think is
going to be a smash hit so in your head
personally you're thinking wow this logo
is going to be awesome this website
messaging is just going to kill it and
then it's like well
until you actually take a look from the
outside in and realize that you're not
necessarily your target customer your
ideal client you're actually just
designing it on what you personally
think looks pretty cool and is when you
can actually shine a light
on your own opinion might not be the
best one because you don't really want
to attract tons of yourself
at least they're not going to be paying
you so with that said you said
um which is pretty rare anyway it's red
that you pay yourself to grow your
business so with that said you said
strategy is about 70 of
of branding so
how can let's get actionable here how
can a company get started on putting
together an effective brand strategy
what are some of the first steps that
you should consider
yeah the fir the first step and this is
i'm gonna walk you through really the
process we take our clients through
because we've it's been proven brings a
lot of aha moments and direction for our
clients and so
we tend to start with
kind of this this foundation of
understanding
what perception you want to have in the
marketplace um and what is that sweet
spot of opportunity for you so what i
mean by that is asking yourself what can
you what can you do
95 consistently providing the same
results that matters to someone so what
is that thing
like so so for us we do brain strategies
we do brand design we do content we can
i've been head of marketing for multiple
companies for decades so i can do
facebook ads i can do linkedin that i
can do
a lot of stuff i've led i've led
marketing teams but um
what we've said was while we can do that
where we shine where we bring the most
value consistently is
in the brand strategy and the content
strategy side and so that that's where
we come in and we say okay
this this uh sweet spot of opportunity
is that we can come in to a company
that's in transition or that is trying
like they they've kind of grown stagnant
they're successful but they can't get to
that next level and they don't know what
it's going to take
that's where we found our sweet spot is
we work with them to get them the
clarity they need to get to that next
level so understanding what is the thing
that you can do 95 of the time
really well produce the same results for
for every client focus there
then and this is the biggest step and
this is the step that i see most
marketers most b2b owners
fail on this step
is understanding your ideal customers
right and so i was talking to someone um
i did a brand messaging evaluation the
other the other day for someone and i
was like
you know in order to write a great brand
message you need to know your idea of
customers and he's like well we're we're
going to do this case study and the the
owner has like um the input to give me
and i was like
like the owner of the company he worked
for i was like no
talk to the client like i don't care how
long you've been in the industry i don't
care if you used to be an ideal customer
and now you're working for someone that
provides services to them you need to
talk to your ideal customer and so
understanding we we walk people through
kind of a process here
one is to understand
who are those ideal customers
so what we do and this is this is a
strategy i tell people you know do it
for free take your
current customer list
and you want to do like an airplane
model with it who is first class who is
business class who is economy class
you define what those parameters are
typically when we work with customers we
say hey first class should be
they make you a lot of money you enjoy
working with them they trust you they're
the customer that isn't like calling you
at 2 a.m in the morning and saying i've
got 10 changes i want to make because
i'm micromanaging everything you do that
is not a first-class client a
first-class client is i send it to you
and you're like perfect here's the 20
000 i owe you like that's a first-class
client for every customer you know for
every business it's going to be a little
different maybe they're also advocates
of you or they uh you know whatever that
might be
figure out what you would say as a first
class client
and then ask yourself of your current
customer list who is first class
who would you say if i had if i built my
business around this one customer if i
had like 30 more of them my business
would be awesome who is that current
customer that you have
then
double down on getting to know them
fill out a customer file obviously you
know everyone knows blueprints your
demographics but
demographics is not enough just title
job you know
industry they're in money they make you
also need to know psychographics you
need to know their lifestyle what are
their beliefs what do they enjoy what
social media platforms are they on um
you need to know their motivations what
actually pushes them to want to change
you need to know what is the aim that
they have for their company or their
life like what are they really after
are they after more money yes but what
is the thing behind the money that
they're after maybe it's freedom to do
what they want maybe it's to be able to
hire someone new maybe it's i just want
to feel
uh like i'm successful
you know i'm a successful business owner
maybe that's really what they're after
find that aim and then find out
what type of experience
do they want so it goes a little deeper
than
most customer blueprint templates you
see that that clients that even our
clients give us before we start is you
need to really know who they are so for
us i actually just posted this today
um
i know for our ideal customers
they are the
talking content side um when we get to
that level they
do not want to post
fluff content
they don't want to be the i hired this
homeless man as a ceo and it like they
don't want to do that crap like they've
tried that crap it didn't work for them
did it produce leads they want to be
they want to be the expert in their
category they're very trusted like i am
a resource so
wow
that kind of other stuff can work for
other companies for our ideal customers
we understand some of them have actually
gone through
linkedin courses some very popular
linkedin courses that most people on
linkedin
know about and promote not going to say
names but some of you probably are like
i know who he's talking about they have
gone through those courses and said
yeah
but i need to help understanding how do
i actually implement this
for me how do i come up with the right
content how do i do all this and so
we understand our ideal customers at
that level on the brand side we know
that
they know the value of brand we don't
have to prove to them that brand is
important we don't have to prove to them
that content is important they know it
but they don't know where to start
they're in this
flux they're kind of that that business
owner that i've got 20 different ideas
but i have no idea which one's the right
one which one i should go with and so
that's where
we know that about them
so we create content around that and we
create marketing around that and we're
launching we're working on a new website
right now so
please ignore our current website it
drives my business partner and i'm nuts
we're like we just want to take it down
until the new one's up but
um
in in doing the new website all the copy
is around that factor of like you you
have a successful business you want to
take it to the next level but you don't
know how
and so understanding i say all that to
say
that's the level of depth you need to
know about your ideal customers like
what actually are their pain points how
are they struggling what are they trying
to do themselves
then
before we jump into the next step yeah
there's a few few things we need to
cover so
we're looking for our a class we're
looking for our first class existing
clients
what if
we're a brand new startup jason what if
we don't have these luxury customers
just yet any recommendations
for an approach to take if we haven't
got those with us already
yeah so typically i i actually have a
lot of people that ask me that in the
dms and so i'm glad you i'm glad you
asked typically my advice is is this
pick an id like pick someone
that you think
is really gonna gonna find value
in your in your product or your service
so maybe you start out and you say okay
for what i'm offering
a solopreneur who is who's in a service
industry
um
they are the ideal maybe you're maybe
you're doing some kind of like you
create automations for businesses and
you're like hey
the enterprise level they're probably
not gonna buy
my service of coming in and automating
stuff but a solopreneur someone who's
doing this by themselves they would see
immense value in having everything
automated and
kind of working at the push of a button
so you say hey these are my ideal
customers then what i would do is
search your linkedin network
find people that fit that if you don't
have sales navigator get sales navigator
you can filter stuff so much more it's
worth the money find the people that
kind of fit who you think
would would um benefit from this
and then ask them hey
i am launching this business i'm not
trying to sell you anything but i think
you might be my ideal customer can i
just
grab 10 minutes of your time i'll give
you a 25 amazon gift card if you if you
let me or hey if you do choose to become
a customer i'll give you a discount for
the first month like however you want to
get them on the call get them on the
call and actually find out if what
you're coming up with
actually fits them
and so that's the problem i see with a
lot of startups is they haven't
they just create a solution
and they're like now i need to find
customers for this when really what you
should be doing is finding customers and
then building a solution for them so
getting to know like if you're thinking
it's going to be this automation
service where i come in and automate all
your different platforms or whatever
start with a hypothesis this is who i
think it might be and then go ask them
is this something that you would pay for
how much would you pay for and if
they're like wow you know because of my
budget i could only pay a hundred
dollars for that well you're probably
not going to build a successful business
if you're only charging a hundred
dollars for something custom like that
so that kind of helps you figure out
then
one is this an ideal customer two is it
within the price range that i can make
money and three
do i need to
[Music]
reevaluate this maybe i beef it up and i
sell it for more but i target a larger
client because the solopreneurs aren't
going to be able to sustain my business
and that's
that's really where i where i would
start
because there are a lot of startups that
don't have these are the clients i want
to work with so start with what you do
have even if they're not ideal or just
start doing research and asking people
yeah and to my mind that should be one
of the first steps if you're early stage
because
this this should happen before you start
investing a lot into your own team to
your marketing to your product because
if this research that you're getting if
this feedback that you're getting is
poor and the the prospects that you're
interviewing
or chatting with don't see any value in
it they don't see that this your product
solves a problem or improves their
business or improves their life and
you're just getting common feedback it's
not a hit at all in any shape or form
then it probably is saying that your
product needs tweaking your solution
needs tweaking so before you invest a
ton in trying to bring it to market this
research is probably one of the very
first steps because then you can
actually
get potential client info and understand
if it's even going to take off so it
just sounds so critical in my mind
yeah and that's the step that
talking from a startup standpoint a lot
of people don't do
so we've had a lot of startups we
we don't tend to work with a lot of
startups right um
just because it's
what we offer in the price range you
have to be more of a
successful you know your product and
service to really make um what we do
work now we do have a few startups who
are our clients but
um
predominantly it's not but what i've
seen with a lot of startups is they get
an idea
and they run with it and then they're
like how do i make this work and it's
like
you're not actually solving a pain point
you're solving a nice to have but if
people aren't willing to pay for that
nice to have if it doesn't really
meet something that they feel they need
they're not going to buy it no matter
how great it is like if you i have a
really simple example like if you came
to me and were like i've got this brand
new car i want to sell you well great i
don't i have a car that i like that
you know i'm almost it's almost done
being paid off i don't want another
payment like i don't feel a need to buy
this new car i don't care how great it
is i don't care if the sucker can like
you know turn into a boat and drive me
somewhere i don't care if it can fly i
don't need it i don't want it so no
matter how great it is i'm not gonna buy
it and that's what that's what some
people like i've had discovery calls
with people where i said
uh i would go back to the drawing board
because what you have is not
it's not something people are gonna need
and no one likes hearing that oh this
idea that i have no one's gonna need it
but if you're not doing that research to
find out hey this is something that
people actually need
it's not gonna it's not gonna grow yeah
100 so that's that's useful on the on
the start up front if you don't have any
customers
if you are you laid out quite a nice
framework earlier jason on what we can
use for our best existing customers if
we have them
in your
experience what is the best way to get
customers on an interview because from
my experience about one in ten is
comfortable doing it um when i say an
interview i mean like over zoom over
teams or whatever video recording
software you use a lot of people
aren't that comfortable on camera
have you got any tips on
how we can actually sweeten the deal for
them and ultimately get these people on
camera so we can get the insights that
we need to then fuel our brand in the
right direction to to make sure we're
actually appealing to idle clients
yeah so really what we do in in that
process because what we'll have our
clients do is
identify three clients that they want us
to interview and then we have like a
templated email that we tell them to use
basically it comes down to
you know hey we're in this process to
make our business better to serve you
better
and so
what we're asking is could you give us
like you know and be very specific we
only want 30 minutes of your time we
only want 45 and what we're gonna do is
ask you questions about your experience
with us or how we can improve um
sometimes we've we've told clients like
if they come to us and they're like
we've tried this before no one wants to
jump on a call it's like incentivize
them like say hey if you're willing to
do this we'll give you a hundred dollar
discount or we'll give you a gift card
or you know if you provide that
incentive sometimes they're a little bit
more willing to say
you know what for a discount i'll get on
there sometimes too it might even be as
simple as maybe you say hey if you're
not comfortable doing it on zoom
what if we just do a phone call
um and then and then tell them that
you're going to record it so you can
grab you know
insights and remember everything so you
don't have to write it down and then we
always recommend too that you
make it clear
how you're going to use
this information so we always ask you
know hey
would you be willing to do a testimonial
we're not going to use this as a
testimonial but would you be willing to
do one if they wanted to contact you um
or would you be okay with
us using any of the information you gave
us here
to craft one to send you to tweak and
sign off on
um sure
what we've also found and this is where
um
it can be difficult if you are a startup
to to really maybe fund this but
we found it's often easier for clients
to talk to a third party than it is to
talk to you as the business owner
uh okay because there there is this idea
of i have a relationship with you and i
don't want to offend you i don't want to
tell you that like hey you think your
offer is really great but it kind of
sucks here and what we found is when
it's when it's the third party where
we're like offend us all you want it's
not offensive to us and we're not going
to present it in an offensive way to the
client we're going to present it in a
way of like hey this is the struggle
they're having with you here's our
recommendation to fix it people
are a lot more
open and a lot more willing to say the
hard things that they don't want to say
to you because they know you and they
don't want to offend you and so if
there's a way to have a third party do
it um you know someone that you trust
someone that you know isn't going to
like
try to steal your clients or you know
whatever or
represent you poorly
um it's why in when we do branding
processes with our clients we include
customer interviews of us doing it is
we've had clients that are like well
i've already interviewed my my customers
i didn't really get good information
we're like yeah
they didn't want to offend you and so we
jumped on the call with them and we
found out the thing they were afraid to
tell the business owner they were like
up front like cussing about it here's
what it was and we're like
so either you don't know how to ask the
right questions and so you want someone
who knows how to like dig deeper and
pull out the truth from people um or
it's just they didn't want to
offend you because they were they didn't
want to offend you or they didn't want
it to
um
reflect back on their pricing like hey
if i piss you off enough you might raise
my pricing a little bit and i don't want
that so
what tends to happen when you interview
them yourself sometimes is they just
want to play nice and tell you what you
want to hear and when it's a third party
they're a lot more likely because we
even tell them like we're not going to
share this with them we're going to pull
the we're going to pull the insights
um and send send them the insights in a
document where we're giving them
recommendations
not
go listen to what you know this person
said about you and how they hate what
you're doing here and how this was a
hard point
that tends to be you tend to get more
truth out of people that way sure and i
suppose everyone's different right so
some some clients could be happy to jump
on a video call others might prefer a
third party some people might even say
ask me the questions by email if they
absolutely hate talking and everyone's a
bit different i mean what i've found as
well which i'm sure you're the same
jason is doing these kind of interviews
with your best current clients is not
only good to actually fuel insights
together
to get to inform your branding inform
your messaging inform the way you craft
your website and your marketing
materials but also if you have quite
candid conversations up front and you're
quite transparent you say look i just i
don't just want to quiz you on what's
working well i want real insight so i
want you to give me a no bs breakdown of
what we're doing well what we're doing
terribly what is shite right now what
can we improve on not only is it going
to inform your branding but it's
actually going to give you ideas on how
you can improve your business business
in the sense of customer service how you
can tackle projects better in the future
how you can service this client better
in the future
and because if they give you those those
things that are working well and not so
well it can really help them
let me give you an example of how this
plays out and how doing this can
actually affect all of your marketing
yeah let's push it forward let's push it
forward yeah so we we have a client that
we're working with they're an insurance
billing company
and we did these customer interviews
with three of their ideal customers and
what we found out was
one that their pricing model
um was it it really was their
differentiation because what they do
instead of saying from day one you're
paying commission it's like the first
three months while you're building up
your clinic we defer payment until and
like
you know backtrack it so you know month
four you're going to pay more to help
cover the first three months and that
way when you're still getting up and
you're you're spending a lot of money on
buildings and stuff like that you don't
have to worry about this part people
love that but
all three said the same thing
what happens is there comes a point in
their
in their pricing structure where
it almost becomes cheaper
for them to hire someone internally than
to continue working with them
and that's something that they our
clients know so we gathered that insight
we we gave it to them and we gave them
the recommendation of hey you might want
to consider a tiered pricing model that
way when they hit a certain point you
take a little bit less out so it
incentivizes them to stay rather than
hiring someone internally so they met
with their accountant they worked all
that out presented new new pricing to
their customers
now that we're kind of working through
how are we going to build out your
website what needs to be on there um we
came back to that point of hey
there you know there's this customer
that still is saying it might be cheaper
they're considering bringing someone
internally and so he said
that needs to be
a core message on your website then of
why
like why would you want to do
outsourcing like if i'm going to pay you
a hundred thousand dollars a year in
commission to get my insurance money and
so that my business makes revenue
why should i pay you when i could hire
someone for 80 000 and do it
and what we found out like you know
because i'm not in that industry i don't
know what we found out was yeah that's
great that you could have one person do
it
but we've got 10 people
handling it for you so
you're you're paying a hundred thousand
dollars for 10 people to work on your
account you're not gonna you're not
gonna hire 10 people for a hundred
thousand dollars internally plus
they brought up like yeah we actually
had a client that did that that left for
a while they're like we're gonna do this
on our own and lost
50 000 worth of revenue
in a year because they didn't know what
they were doing and so that client came
back to them and not only did they
recoup the 50 000 like of the of the 50
they lost they were only able to recoup
for them 25 just because of insurance
laws and stuff but then they made an
extra 50 that net or an extra 50 000
that next year so they were even up
because they worked with this company
i'm like that needs to be
a key page on your website then and then
you need to have those you need to get
that client on a video
saying this so you have a testimonial
from someone that says hey i was
considering doing this i did it my
business lost fifty thousand dollars
that year i came back because while it
looks better on paper it actually cost
you more money if you do it internally
because it's delayed times getting uh
getting payment and all this stuff so
then we're gonna be developing out
content around this idea for them to put
out on social media and blog posts and
all that so one little insight we got
from a client interview
change their business structure
change their website is changing their
whole marketing strategy
from one insight and that now is going
to like they're even we're even
developing like literature for them to
send to new clients to even explain this
in the onboarding that there will come a
point where you say it's going to be
cheaper to hire internally but here's
why
looking at just i'm paying you this much
commission
and i could pay someone like twenty
thousand dollars less a year here's why
that's a false comparison so now even in
the onboarding their seat the clients
are going to start seeing this that hey
it still is going to pay to work with
you
it it's a whole new marketing and even
customer service strategy
off of
one
insight
from an interview like that's how this
all kind of plays out into affecting and
really how branding
and doing a brand strategy affects your
marketing is
knowing that because i did that from the
brand standpoint knowing that then
drives
everything i do from from marketing
knowing that one insight developed a
whole marketing campaign for them
how much you know
so
how much of this do you think is
impacted by customer frustrations
because i can give you a quick example
so
we were interviewing a few of our
clients a while back and one is a
contractor that we do web and seo work
for and i was just asking them general
questions a bit similar to what we've
been talking about now and i said is is
there something often like let's say
you're going to a job do customers often
say something that niggles them or that
frustrates them or do they ever give you
feedback on your website or your
services in general and they just said
this this is a bit annoying and they
said yeah actually almost every time
they say
i wish you would actually share your
pricing on your website
and i was like a light bulb just shown
above my head and i was like guys what's
this telling you that
maybe we should share our pricing i was
like yes please because if
if customers are saying it to you all
the time this is this is a telltale sign
that you need to be more transparent and
not only is that gonna please more
prospects to land on your site but it's
also going to help qualify
buyers because they're going to get an
idea of the range that you work with and
it's going to deter perfect prospects
from getting in touch with you so it
saves everyone time in the long run um
but it just shows like you are saying
jason leveraging those frustrations that
you can get from customer feedback to
your advantage well that is on your
website your marketing materials and
ultimately it can help you
drive revenue yeah
and not not even the frustrations like i
think people will share frustrations
quickly because it's like i've been
wanting to tell you this forever you
know like yeah frustrations are easier
to come up with but i think too
some of the things that you do super
well
yeah that that they have
work like so
one of the things we've heard from our
clients is like they a lot of our
clients have worked with
other marketing firms other branding
firms they've had someone do their
website you know and they're like the
difference that you guys bring is you
actually
explain and walk me through
why i should do it
this way
like everyone else is just like here's
your website what do you want to change
and they're like i don't know i'm not a
marketer i don't know if this is the
right layout i don't know if that that
call to action is the right one i should
use i'm not the marketer i'm coming to
you because you're the expert and that's
the feedback we get is like we've worked
with other uh like one of our bigger
clients they're like we've worked with
another branding company that gave us
brand messaging
but they didn't do this whole like we do
workshops and um
our big thing is we want to create aha
moments for you
so we do these collaborative workshops
with you and your team to help you get
to
oh
that's what sets us apart we're not
actually
we might craft it in a way that you can
easily share it and make it sound good
but really what's happening is we're
we're giving you
the the space to think through this
stuff to to dive down we're guiding you
like hey you're spending way too much
time focusing on something that doesn't
matter let's come back here like we're
guiding the conversation but ultimately
what's happening is what we're trying to
do is get the whole team to say
that
is what sets me apart that's or sets us
apart that's what we want to focus on
it's like
yes
this is now
we can come up with the messaging and
present it to you we can tweak it from
there but um that's what they've said
for us like the difference is you
actually walk us through a process to
understand and get the buy-in from the
ceo down to like the sales rep so we
understand it's not just marketing
coming in like here's this new brand and
messaging we have it's the ceo
the the you know the cpo
cto whoever else wants to be involved
marketing sales they're all coming
together to say
this is what we want to say
um this is actually what sets us apart
and this is what we want to move forward
on um
and so understanding that for us
that's driven
all of like as we're building out our
new website that's what's driving all
the messaging on there is it's not just
about get you a new message it's we're
going to provide the clarity so that
message makes sense to you
what are some of the best ways so we've
gone through the early stages we've
talked about interviewing ideal clients
so what are some of the best ways
to actually make make sure that we're
putting these insights into action that
are then going to drive bottom line for
the business
yeah so kind of after you after you get
these insights really the next step is
to figure out what actually
sets you apart and this is where
most b2b companies struggle because
they have an idea of what sets them
apart and it's usually not in line with
what their customers say so
most b2b companies
they think what sets them apart is what
they think is awesome about them like i
hear this a lot it's our team that makes
us different no it's not
it's not it's the fact that we can make
you more revenue i can get on google
find 100 000 of your competitors within
three seconds and they all say the same
thing so that's not really what sets you
apart and so what we do is we take those
insights and we say okay
now what is the one thing
that is super relevant to these people
but also super differentiated and that's
what we want to focus on so for instance
for shift we are a brand positioning
agency
you can get on google you can find
branding agencies you can find all of
our competitors in seconds no big deal
so what we did is we said okay what's
gonna really set us apart we understand
that the people we work with
don't understand branding they don't
understand how do i take this insight
and turn it into something actionable
so for every step of the process
we have developed out one page
strategies
so like
when we do your customer file and we do
all these interviews and we understand
your ideal customers what we do then is
we we give you the 20 page research
document here's everything we talked
about
and then we condense it to a one-pager
that your team your sales team your
marketing team if you're going to
outsource your website or your ppc ads
or whatever you can give this to them
and they're going to understand it and
in those strategies we tell you
here's how you're going to use it
so for instance we when we give you your
brand messaging and we've got five
pieces of brand messaging we provide in
our process
we tell you this is an internal
message you're going to use this here
here here here and here
this is external you're going to put
this on your website you're going to use
this on your home page you're going to
use this on your services page this is
where this fits best to drive people to
conversion so what we do is we don't
just give you
here's everything we actually train you
how to start thinking like a brander and
that then
has because of that that is now part of
our our core brand messaging that's part
of what we emphasize on the website when
i do discovery calls and i'm talking to
people i highlight and i actually show
them when we do not discovery calls but
when we're in that next phase i actually
show them all the documentation here's
we have everything templated out and we
say
your information will be in here this is
dummy copy right now but this is how
you're going to get the document and
look how we show you this is how you use
it this is how your marketing team's
going to use it this how your sales team
is going to use it and immediately for
people they're like
this is what i need because i don't know
like you're going to give me five pieces
of brand messaging where do i stick them
great i've got messaging now what do i
do with it we show you
how you actually use this to benefit
your marketing and sales and so
because of that insight that we got from
our deal clients
we've developed that into our messaging
we've developed that into our sales
process where we really point out to
people you're not just getting a
here's some insights
go do it you're getting here some
insights here's how this is going to
drive everything else in your company
and then at the end
they get a one-page implementation
strategy of
now that we've done all this
here's the next step
for you to work on maybe it is your
brand design sucks you've got
purple and green when you're trying to
be behind the scenes or you're trying to
be bold and dangerous and you're using
blue not gonna evoke that feeling so you
need to change your brand design you
need to change your website you need to
in your marketing you need to highlight
this insight more so we give them
that kind of
insights and so that was insights
we got from our ideal customers where
they said
yeah give us some examples so
and feel free to use
some of your clients or or generic
examples so let's say
someone's ran an interview
but then i don't know maybe they want to
now
leverage insights to put a new website
headline or an ad maybe it's a google ad
or a facebook ad headline
how can they give us an example because
we've had guests on in the past and
have said things like leverage the
common the things that get said most
common leverage those whether that's a
problem a pain point use that as a
headline or whether that's a value
proposition i.e what value what revenue
what what winning result did you bring
to the company something that gets
commonly repeated then use that and
you're messaging your headline are there
any ways that we can take these snippets
of info
and
we know that's the gold dust that is
what's going to resonate so that's for
example going on our website headline
that's our valley proper that's going in
our ad headline any kind of examples
yeah so
we are working right now with an energy
and sustainability sas platform um so if
they do
a quick run through if you have like if
you
run a college and you're trying to see
uh get your energy usage down and get
your greenhouse gas emissions down
they're the kind of platform that you
can track all that you can even track
like how often your cows fart type thing
like
i'm blown away by what they can track i
was like i didn't even know that's
that's possible but um when they came to
us it was
uh very
feature focused here's what our platform
can do and not very solutions focus so
as we went through this process and we
um you know did all the workshops with
them talk to their ideal clients all
that kind of stuff um
what we what we found out was
they have three different personas each
persona is after something
different
and so as we're right now we're in the
process of building out product
messaging specific to each persona so
what we've what we've done is we found
out that like okay
for persona a
what they're really after is managing
data for persona b
they're about start like setting goals
and saying we have to you know because
of regulatory compliance we have to drop
this down here
for persona 3 more the accountants they
don't care about that they care about
the money they care about validating
everything making sure that the bills
they're paying are accurate and they're
they're only doing that so
understanding that on each different
persona what we were able to do is say
okay
because
person a persona a is more about
managing
the messaging needs to be about
we help you manage
all of this data and make it clear for
persona b it's
we help you
target we help you set the targets and
say we want to get you know from here to
here
in two years okay we this can help you
so
that's one way another client um
that we
were working with this the insurance
billing company
um what we found out from them in their
customer interviews was a little bit
what i shared with you already that they
have this
um pricing structure where
so they work with aba clinics children
with autism basically so the clinics
that that help children with autism they
do the insurance billing for them so
they get their revenue 100 of their
revenue comes from insurance so it's
important to do this well
what what they provided that all their
customers were like this is why we went
with you is there their competition says
from day one you owe us money
what they have done is said okay because
you're starting up and we believe in the
work that you're doing we want to help
fund you
first three months
we're not going to charge you we will do
it we won't charge you but then your
monthly rate moving forward will be a
little bit higher after you start
seeing success and you're not paying for
well i got to pay for desks and lab
tables and all this kind of stuff when
all that's done now you know you don't
have that initial expense right up front
and so we took that like all three other
clients said that
this is why we went with you so we we
took that and in their brand messaging
we've developed it around this idea that
we are helping you like their customer
vision this this bold statement to say
this is what we're going to help our
customers achieve is
that you will be the aba clinic of
choice for families
like so that's what they're helping
their customers do and we wrapped it
around and then there's an explanatory
sentence behind that and in there it
talks about
we help even with the pricing so that
you can do what you want to do and will
do the boring stuff that actually gets
you paid you focus on the children will
focus on
making sure you have the money to grow
what you're doing and that message has
connected with their ideal customers to
a level that we're not even done with
their website and they're already
starting to see
like
more leads come in because of that
like they're changing it in their sales
pitches and stuff like that so they're
already seeing
more and more interest because of that
messaging of
you do what you do
will do that boring stuff to make sure
you get you get paid
yeah so you're really leveraging what
target customers actually care about
when it comes to your industry
and that's why like i always come back
to if you watch my link or read my
linkedin content you'll see this all the
time you have to know your ideal
customers
because everything you do your brand
messaging how you sell to them how you
market to them comes down to
what is their aim what are they actually
after if you can speak to their aim and
you can speak to their struggle if you
can do both
they will read your website and say i'm
ready to you know book a call sign up
for a demo whatever that might be
but if you're just coming up with
messaging that's like we help them make
more revenue
that's not going to connect with most
people because your competitors are
saying the same thing and so it's really
understanding the nitty-gritty of what
they are actually after and so even in
your customer interviews when they give
you an answer
i always recommend you ask the question
why does that matter to you
then they get then they explain a little
bit more why does that matter to you why
and like this is a rabbit hole you can
keep going down so you need to know when
to stop like i tell steph all the time
because he's always like well we could
even go deeper and i'm like this is deep
enough
like this is a great insight we can stop
at but
a lot of times they're gonna you know
their first answer might be like well i
really like this about what you do
great or like i hear this a lot well my
ideal customers say they come to me
because they like my personality i you
can't write brand messaging around
i have a great personality so work with
me it's like there's a deeper reason you
have to dig deeper and so
understanding
their true like
this is who they are this is how they
think this is what they're after
you get that down
everything up what messaging should be
on your website what calls to action
should you use where should you write
content what kind of content should you
write how should your sales decks be
like be written how should your sales
flyers and the stuff that you send out
what should your demo look like
all of that
if you know your ideal customers
every question you have about how should
i do this gets answered when you know
what your ideal customers are really
really after what they're what they're
looking for
yeah and on that note jason what i've
found as well i expect you're similar is
understanding what target customers
really care about when it comes to their
business getting the job done common
problems common frustrations
not only is gonna
assist your marketing efforts whether
that's your website your ads
materials brochures whatever
but it's also really gonna help you on
sales calls
because you're gonna
break free from the traditional hated
sales person and become more of a i
guess a trusted advisor because you
already have a rough idea of what
clients often come to you and i'm not
paying everyone with the same brush but
when someone brings a new project to you
you can ask more educated questions like
when they're saying look we need to do
abc you're saying well often when
customers have come to us with a similar
project we found they've had an issue
with
a b c d
wondering if that's something that
affects you and they say oh oh yeah
actually it is because you hear these
problems all the time you know what
their con frustrations are and then you
can like you say you can still ask
questions you can still get insights you
can still get to the root of the
problems and their ambitions their goals
but you can show trusted leadership
thought leadership in the sense that you
understand
how they're getting the job done you
understand how to tackle the problem you
can recommend appropriate solutions and
be more of an advisor rather than just
trying to sell them a product you can
give them kind of real sound advice
well it also will shorten the sales
cycle as well
when you are getting to the point much
faster and addressing what they're after
in their pain point earlier on in the
sales cycle they're much faster to make
a decision because they see the value in
what you bring and so
like for us when we go through the brand
our brand positioning package that we
offer and we
usually just in the discovery call i'm
not showing them documentation i'm just
saying this is what the process looks
like and these are the results that you
get because i know
you're an ideal customer
i know what you're facing i know what
you're struggling with i can talk about
this in that way
and instead of saying like
like for most of them it's not about
making more revenue
and that that blows a lot of people's
minds is that my ideal customers aren't
coming to me like i want more revenue
it's
we need more clarity
we need direction we need to know like
what we're doing is actually going the
right way
and what like what services should we
continue or stop or like like that's
that's where they're at money-wise
they're like we can make more money but
we need to know we've got five different
options which one's going to be the best
for us so i know now not to say in my
sales cycle well you know one year and
this is true all of our clients have
seen a 20 increase in revenue or more
after they've implemented our strategies
so true
but i don't share that in the discovery
because that's not what they're after in
the discovery they're after what clarity
what direction what do i what how does
this impact my business from the
um the standpoint of direction and
understanding where i should be going
that's what they're after and so i
address that right on and they're like
i want to see
your actual you know call it a demo or
whatever where we walk through the
process show you all the documentation
they're like i want to see it
because you just addressed everything
that i'm struggling with and everything
i'm looking for so now i want to see the
nitty-gritty
we get them
much faster
because we know them and we know what
they're after and i don't have to sit
here and flounder around and ask a bunch
of questions
um because we we know the answers to
those questions
yeah yeah yeah it's really powerful
jason for anyone that's been listening
along and thought
this branding stuff sounds alright
however
it sounds like let's let's say you're in
a mid to larger size org you might think
well that's going to take a lot of time
for my marketing department to run all
these customer interviews do this
research take all this time
can't i just ship i don't know 20 30
grand into ads and i think we'll be just
fine or
maybe a smaller orgs thinking well why
should i pay a company likewise i can
just ship a load of money maybe maybe
run some ads maybe upgrade the site
maybe maybe spend some money on demand
gen would that not be a better idea
so
when you're when you talk about brand
brand and your your brand strategy and
your business strategy
should operate like this
most people see branding as a marketing
tactic it's just something else that the
marketing team does
really what branding does is bring you
that clarity to know what to do and so
what we've seen from a lot of our
clients is they've done that they have
gone they have dropped a load of money
in you know linkedin as they've dropped
a butt load of money in doing demand gen
but
they don't
fully understand
who am i going after with my demand gen
so demand jen is great but if you don't
know who those ideal customers are and
if you don't know their pain points and
what they're after you can waste a lot
of money in demand jen and see
nothing good come from it
same with
let me back up and say this when i
started shift a lot of people don't
don't necessarily know this but when i
started shift two years ago
i started with this idea of being a
fractional cmo i wanted like five
clients that i was the head of marketing
for them i would come in get their
marketing in order and leave
and so
what was happening was i was doing a lot
of discovery calls with clients that
were like well i want facebook ads or i
want demand jen i need help with content
and i would ask simple questions like
who are your ideal customers
well it's it's
anyone in the b2b realm
no it's not like let's be honest no you
you don't know who your idea what
struggles do they have well they just
need to make more money
um
you don't know your ideal customers and
then it's like okay well what sets you
apart why would they want to click this
ad and come through
well we're we're the best
enter
their their category what they do we're
the best at this
that means jack crap like let's be
honest
when people say that in their brand
messaging it reminds me of the movie elf
where he finds like that coffee shop
that's like the world's best cup of
coffee oh yeah yeah that's what that's
what you're saying when you're like if
you know if your brand messaging on your
website was we provide the best seo
service
that's the image that comes to my mind
like you actually don't know what you do
um and so
when you dump a lot of money into
marketing hoping that's gonna fix things
and you don't understand you don't have
that level of depth of your ideal
customers you're gonna waste a lot of
money you're still gonna see results
like you're still uh you know i'll be
honest you're still gonna see some leads
come through because some of it might
actually hit the right person at the
right time but
you will be far more effective and have
a greater roi if you actually know this
is who i'm going after and this is the
messaging that's going to hit them you
know that
you'll know like and this is what i
explain to people in the discovery call
if you have a brand strategy
you are you don't have to ask what
platforms should i create content on
you will know because you have the
answer
you're not going to have to ask should i
go to this trade show or should i go
here you're gonna know
because you have the answer from your
customer side and so for us
we tend to tell people
with us anyways this process takes
about four months
so it's a long process
but you come out of it and you know
what you need to do next you know
okay now i'm gonna do demand jen i'm
targeting these people this is the type
of content that they want to see this is
where i need to spend my ad my ad budget
for the demand gen this is where you
know even for you guys this is the the
keywords i need to go after i know
because i already know what they're
searching for and so when you outsource
them to someone like you guys
imagine your customers coming to you and
saying
here's my customer file i know exactly
the problems they're after i know what
they're facing you can sit down and you
can say
well crap these are the keywords you
need to go after here's your strategy i
can get seo working for you faster
because you have a you have a better
understanding of your differentiation
and of your ideal clients
everything becomes better and faster you
waste less money when you invest in your
brand up front like
imagine and i'm using you guys an
example because you do seo like imagine
how much faster you get results when you
don't have to test and say well we're
going to try these keywords because you
don't really know what you're after so
we're going to try these to see if this
works with your messaging and then we're
going to try this and okay now we
figured it out imagine that testing
period is
is cut in half
because
they know their ideal customers and they
can tell you exactly what they're after
all of a sudden the spend they make on
seo is going to be less because they
already know what they want to do same
with ads same with um you know even on
your website you're going to spend less
time going back and forth on copy
because you know what needs to be be
said it is that
what i like to tell people is brand
strategy
is that that sense of i know
what i need to do and if you don't know
if you're sitting here like should i do
seo should i do demand should i do ads
on facebook or on linkedin you need a
brand strategy all those questions get
answered when you fully understand this
is what sets me apart so this is the
message i need to put out there and this
is who i'm going after
everything i like we've done these brand
strategies with multiple clients and we
found out for some of them like
quit wasting your time on instagram
your ideal customers aren't there so you
may be paying someone to do it and
that's money you're wasting because
wow while it may make you feel good that
you've got something on instagram your
ideal customers either aren't there or
they're not there to engage
with you
so stop wasting your money and imagine
having that kind of confidence and
clarity to say
this is where i'm spending my marketing
money because i know
i already know before i even test it i
know that this is going to work because
this is the level of knowledge i have of
my ideal customers that
is what branding is about is that
foundation that then you hand it over to
your marketing team and they're like
freaking a i can get you results much
faster because i know exactly what i'm
going after you give it to your sales
team and they're like i know exactly the
pain points and and the pressure points
i need to apply to get them to buy
because i understand their psychology
that is a brand strategy
yeah that's that's a really great
analysis and i like the fact that you
you said you could still
dump a load of cash in marketing whether
that's google ads facebook ads linkedin
ads demand gen strategy
podcast one whatever heck you want
to do
and you might get you might ramp up
sales but like you say it's almost like
a chicken and egg solution because
without knowing exactly who you want to
target what messaging is going to
resonate
what channels you should be on then your
cash is a lot
better spent if you can do that work up
front know where these customers let me
hang out and what they're actually let
me give you
let me give you one concrete example of
this and then
we've gone for an hour so yeah we'll
wrap things up
but um so my last job uh my last
full-time job before i went full time
with shift i was head of marketing for a
food processing equipment manufacturer
now if i listen to the prevailing
marketing content of the day
i would not spend
any money on magazine ads
most markers are like magazine ads they
cost a lot of money they're not
effective don't do it
so when i started working there the
first thing i did was got to know our
ideal customers i sat in on sales calls
i talked to project managers who were
also sales people
um got to really understand
where they spend their time how they you
know how do they make this buying
decisions where do they come from and
what we found out was that there were
two magazines one in particular but two
magazines
that
every one of our ideal customers read
religiously
like
they would get the print magazine they
would sit there they would read through
it because it had like here are you know
best practices right now here's what
other here's what your competition is
thinking about so they read that
religiously i spent the last year i was
there we spent 250 000 a year just in
print
at like magazine print advertising 250
000 a year i had other marketers telling
me i was stupid like you don't want to
do that and it's like
why would i not my ideal customers are
not the ones that are on facebook
they're not spending time on social
media they're not they're not listening
to podcasts they don't do that what they
do is they look at this trade magazine
we had
one of the biggest clients that that
company had before i left
how we got them we ran an ad in a
magazine for an ergonomic stand it's the
cheapest thing that we sold
when the sales like when they called us
up and was like i want to talk to sales
and and someone went out there to meet
with them walk through their plan
they had taken the page that our ad was
on ripped it out of the magazine hung it
up on their wall behind them on their
bulletin board because they were like
i need these and i want to talk to you
guys about what you do
most companies like shift does not
advertise in magazine it's not where our
idea of customers are at but that is the
power of understanding we drove
so much business from those magazine ads
that like we continue to increase the
budget because it's like it's giving us
a positive roi we we went from 14
million one year to like 20 million the
next i think a 6 million dollar jump is
worth paying 250 000 for you know and so
that that is the power of knowing your
ideal customers is you can actually
stop listening to
prevailing marketing wisdom
and really understand
my ideal customers buy this way so this
is where i'm going to show up
so yeah
i love that i think that's one of the
one of the keys in marketing right as
well is not only listening to your idol
customers like you said ignoring the
so-called gurus or ninjas or experts
whatever the hell they want to call
themselves and actually going where your
target clients hang out and being on
those channels even if the experts say
it's not worth it but also not being
afraid
to test things out for yourself yes so i
mean we're quite fortunate in the sense
that our company is at a stage where we
can spend a bit of cash on certain
marketing channels and see if they work
for us if they don't so for example we
recently dumped a load of cash and
linkedin ads we tested it for about
three four months
got a couple of leads but the return
against the spend just really wasn't
worth it are we crushed by it we're a
little bit disappointed but we've tested
the channel we've ran a good experiment
it didn't go well for us no problem
we've learned from it we're not going to
do it again we're going to use those
insights and take that to our next
experiment um you know so the thing is
to not be afraid to actually try things
out even if other every other person's
saying they're nonsense
um so understand that one size doesn't
fit all that's a big thing to to realize
in marketing but jason with that said
sir thanks very much this was definitely
a feature there's been some golden
nuggets and i've really really enjoyed
it i'm sure the audience has two
so do give us a quick snapshot of how
anyone tuning in can get in touch with
you connect with you and learn more
yeah biggest thing would be linkedin i'm
on there all the time uh every weekday
so
it's just jasonvana or you can search
for the hashtag sassyjason you'll find
me that way too um the other way would
be every monday we send out a an email
with branding and content strategies
that you can try out and test for
yourself um you can sign up for that on
our website which is shift we were
trying to be cool with this there is no
i so
shft
dot marketing um is our website if you
do slash insider that'll take you
directly to where you can sign up for
the email um
and then i'm also on twitter i share a
lot of marketing or branding and content
branding and content content that sounds
weird brand new content posts on twitter
as well
my handle is just jason vanna so those
would be the three best places to engage
with us get from us get all our free
guides and
all my insights for free without having
to pay me a dime those would be the
three places to find us
yeah definitely recommend connecting
with jason on linkedin he's posting good
no bs actionable tips across marketing
and branding every day so get that done
jason thanks once again sir
thanks for having me it's been fun no
dramas dude we'll put all of those links
over on the show notes over at
businessgrowth.marketing
and with that if you enjoyed today's
episode a quick rating on your podcast
channel or subscribe on youtube is
always appreciated and we shall catch
you on the next one cheers for tuning in
awesome thanks